Feature seed: Tester Portal Release Metadata + Tester Changelog

Goal

Create a deterministic release-publishing flow for the MessageLens tester portal.

The tester portal should no longer hardcode current build metadata such as version, build date, status, or download filename. Instead, the release/package script should publish a generated metadata file after a successful build/sign/notarize/package flow.

The tester portal should also expose a tester-facing changelog page that helps testers decide whether their installed version is worth updating.

Architectural rule

The downloads folder is an artifact location, not the source of truth.

The release script is the source of publishing intent. It should copy/update artifacts and write metadata only after the release build has succeeded.

Do not use a LaunchAgent or folder watcher for this feature.

The release process must be path-based and script-driven, not dependent on VS Code workspace state.

Slice 1 — Tester-facing changelog page

Purpose

The existing root CHANGELOG.md is a developer/source-of-truth changelog. It contains useful technical detail, but it is not ideal as the primary tester-facing changelog.

Add a tester-facing changelog page to the tester portal.

The page should answer the tester’s practical question:

“Should I download this new version?”

Requirements

Add a changelog page to the tester portal.

Add a clear link from the home page, probably near the current version/build metadata area:

“Changelog…”

or

“What changed?”

The tester changelog should use friendly, non-internal wording.

Avoid exposing raw implementation terms unless they are hidden under a “Technical notes” section.

Suggested release-entry shape:

Version heading:
0.1.13 — April 24, 2026

Sections:
Worth updating for
Also improved
Technical notes, optional/collapsible if supported easily

Example tester-facing entry based on the current changelog:

0.1.13 — April 24, 2026

Worth updating for

* Resetting MessageLens data now guides testers back into the reimport flow instead of leaving them on the reset screen.
* Fixed a startup issue that could leave the app on a black screen in some launch situations.

Also improved

* Diagnostic reports now include more information to help troubleshoot reset and onboarding problems.

Implementation preference

Use a simple content/data source inside the tester portal, for example one of:

src/data/tester-changelog.json

or

src/content/changelog.md

or the project’s existing content convention, if one already exists.

Do not parse the raw root CHANGELOG.md for this first slice unless the current site architecture makes that unusually easy. Hand-maintained tester-facing changelog content is acceptable for now.

Important distinction

Keep root CHANGELOG.md as the developer/source changelog.

Add tester-facing changelog content as a separate, curated presentation layer.

Slice 2 — Generated latest-build metadata

Purpose

Remove hardcoded home page build metadata.

The home page should read current release values from a generated metadata file.

Suggested metadata file

Add something like:

src/data/latest-build.json

Shape:

{
“version”: “0.1.13”,
“buildDate”: “2026-04-24”,
“status”: “Beta”,
“downloadFile”: “MessageLens-latest.dmg”
}

Fields may be adjusted to match the site’s conventions.

Requirements

Update the tester portal home page so version, build date, status, and download link are read from this metadata file.

Do not hardcode those values in the page component.

The download button should use the metadata download filename/path.

Use pubspec.yaml as the source of truth for the app version.

The build date should be generated by the release publishing step.

The status can remain a configured constant for now, probably “Beta”.

Slice 3 — Release script publishing step

Purpose

Extend the existing MessageLens release script so that, after successful packaging/signing/notarization/stapling, it updates the tester portal.

The release script should:

1. Read the current app version from pubspec.yaml.
2. Determine the release/build date.
3. Copy the finalized DMG into the tester portal downloads folder.
4. Write/update the generated latest-build metadata file.
5. Fail loudly if required paths are missing.

Path assumptions

The Flutter app project and tester portal project do not need to be in the same VS Code workspace.

The script should operate at the directory level.

Use configurable paths near the top of the script, or environment-variable overrides, for example:

APP_ROOT
TESTER_PORTAL_ROOT
TESTER_PORTAL_DOWNLOADS_DIR
LATEST_BUILD_METADATA_FILE

Do not depend on VS Code workspace state.

Suggested release-script contract

Publishing to the tester portal should only happen after the release artifact is complete and verified.

The script should not update portal metadata before the DMG is ready.

If copying the DMG or writing metadata fails, the script should exit nonzero.

Suggested safety checks

Before writing anything, verify:

* pubspec.yaml exists
* tester portal root exists
* tester portal downloads directory exists, or create it intentionally if that matches project convention
* generated metadata directory exists
* finalized DMG exists

Optional but useful

Keep the latest download filename stable as:

MessageLens-latest.dmg

This keeps the home page download URL simple.

If desired later, also preserve versioned files such as:

MessageLens-0.1.13.dmg

But this does not need to be part of the first implementation.

Slice 4 — Documentation

Add a short project note documenting the release metadata contract.

Possible location:

tester portal README

or

_AGENT_INSTRUCTIONS/agent-per-project/… if this repo uses that convention

Suggested text:

Release Metadata Contract

The tester portal must not infer current release state by scanning the downloads folder. The downloads folder is only an artifact location.

The MessageLens release script is responsible for publishing the current tester build. After a successful build/sign/notarize/package flow, the script copies the DMG into the tester portal downloads folder and writes the generated latest-build metadata file.

The tester portal home page reads version, build date, status, and download filename from generated release metadata. These values must not be hardcoded in the page component.

The root CHANGELOG.md remains the developer/source changelog. The tester portal changelog is a curated tester-facing presentation that explains whether a tester should download a newer build.

Implementation order

Recommended order:

1. Add tester-facing changelog page and home-page link.
2. Add latest-build metadata file and convert home page to read from it.
3. Extend the release script to generate/update that metadata and copy the DMG.
4. Add the documentation note.
5. Run the tester portal locally and verify the home page and changelog page.

Definition of done

* Home page no longer hardcodes current app version, build date, status, or download filename.
* Home page download button reads from latest-build metadata.
* Tester-facing changelog page exists and is linked from the home page.
* Release script can publish the finalized DMG to the tester portal downloads folder.
* Release script writes latest-build metadata using pubspec.yaml version and current build date.
* Release process is path-based, not VS Code workspace-based.
* Contract is documented.